# Movie-recommendor-system
Dataset link- https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata?select=tmdb_5000_movies.csv

The first dataset contains the following features:-

movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
crew - The name of Director, Editor, Composer, Writer etc.

The second dataset has the following features:-

budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.
homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
original_language - The language in which the movie was made.
original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
overview - A brief description of the movie.
popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
production_companies - The production house of the movie.
production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
release_date - The date on which it was released.
revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
status - "Released" or "Rumored".
tagline - Movie's tagline.
title - Title of the movie.
vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
vote_count - the count of votes recieved.

** DATA PREPROCESSING **

Both dataset are merged and then data preprocessing is done :
1 Converted string of list into list by literal eval 
(The literal_eval() function is a useful tool in Python for safely evaluating and executing Python expressions or literals from a string. It is part of the ast (Abstract Syntax Trees) module and provides a secure way to evaluate strings containing valid Python literals such as numbers, strings, tuples, lists, dictionaries, and booleans.The primary purpose of literal_eval() is to parse and evaluate simple Python expressions without executing potentially harmful or arbitrary code. )
2  Converted string of list into dict and taking only the name of genres.
3  Extracted first 3 crew members and keeping only name of director.
4  Concatenating genres, title,	overview,	keywords,	cast,	crew  into tags.
5  So dataframe df1 has 'movie_id','title','tags'.
6 Count vectorizer is applied to tags column.
(The CountVectorizer class takes a set of text documents as input and transforms them into a sparse matrix representation, where each row corresponds to a document, and each column represents a specific word or token. The matrix values indicate the frequency of each token in each document)
7 Stemming is done to the words of tags.
(The goal of stemming is to simplify the analysis of text data by reducing words to a common form. This helps in tasks like information retrieval, text mining, and document classification, where variations of words with the same stem are treated as the same word)
8 Cosine similarity is applied to vectors to find similarity.
(Cosine similarity is a measure of similarity between two non-zero vectors in a multi-dimensional space. It is widely used in various applications, including information retrieval, text mining, recommendation systems, and clustering.)
9 Similarity matrix is obtained whoose elements are arrange according to the similarity value (not similar-0, similar-1)
10 Function is made which return the top 5 similar movies from similarity matrix.
